# Reflection

The project really emphasised the areas which I needed to work out in terms of the theory behind the project, especially planning and time management. Despite my personal distaste for this sort of work, I managed to effectively plot out blocks of time in which I could work on my project, as well as times where I could develop the starting point for my application. I was initially fairly confused about what kind of application I could build, but as a frequent reader of webcomics I decided to build a web framework-cum-educational web comic that both looked and worked better than most other frameworks built for this purpose. This helped to refine my idea and allowed me to work quicker when it came to actually writing the algorithms used in the project, as well as creating flowcharts and DFDs. My time management was rather poor, as I often had to scrape most of the theory together quickly after spending too much time on working on building the foundation of the project. Despite this, I believe I at least had a good grasp of how to actually go through with the theory.
Most of the theory had to do with reports on social, legal and ethical issues, which I found fairly dull. My project didn't have that much to actually do with these issues, making it difficult to find a topic to write about. Despite this, I was able to focus on the concept of intellectual property, as I was employing a similar drawing style to Randall Munroe's *xkcd* (although not so much by choice as the fact that I needed to save time). This was an interesting topic in terms of investigating the different means to protect intellectual property, but apart from that I felt it was pretty dry. Making flowcharts was fairly fun if only because of my weird obsession with diagrams in general, and I enjoy physics (quantum in particular), which helped me get a solid topic for writing my Emerging Technologies report on. I didn't really have a solid idea of how to link it with my project, but considering how it would render most existing education obsolete helped me to link it.
In conclusion, I felt that this was a fairly enjoyable task and the work I did, while rushed, was still of good quality.
