# Social, Ethical and Legal Issue: Intellectual Property

IP is a hotly-contested issue in the software world, especially where tools have been specifically developed to see other people's work stolen and the means by which they accomplished this exposed for the world to see. However, as open-source licensing grows ever-more popular in the software world, the traditional definition of IP is changing rapidly. IP is defined as *intellectual property*, or products of the mind, e.g. code, inventions, literary and artistic works[^1]. Usually, IP is protected with several types of licenses:
- copyrighting
- patents
- trademarks
- and finally, industrial designs (aesthetic and functional qualities of work).
These licenses are designed to mostly prevent certain actions from being taken to steal IP and makes those who do legally responsible for their theft much like someone who steals physical property. This culpability manifests itself in countermeasures against plagiarism, those who sell the same product, and those who steal the designs of the product (among others). While this does protect the creator by allowing them to collect the profits off  of their intellectual work, others have raised questions with this concept, claiming it resembles intellectual monopoly more than intellectual ownership due to the fact that unlike physical property, ideas do not "belong" to one person or another[^2]. This has led to the file-sharing movement, among others, which encourages file piracy and P2P file-sharing of copyrighted files. With the advent of this movement, many developers have instead decided to release their software under open-source licenses, which allows for public access and modification of the code (but not replication). This taps into the power of the collective to find and fix bugs in software. Platforms such as GitHub encourages this power of community with features such as forking (making a personal copy of code for your own modification) and bug reports that can be raised by any member of the public, alerting the devs and the public as a whole to the bugs.
My main concern with IP and open-source is the fact that much of the software I'm employing in my project is built using parts others' code that I've found on the Internet while looking for tutorials on the subject of Ruby web development. This could lead to potential plagiarism claims, but this would be a far-reaching claim, especially considering how many of these coding structures are used by virtually everyone, as opposed to just the websites I have extracted the code from. I have used code from websites that explicitly state that it's fine to use snippets of code off of their tutorials, so I should be safe from plagiarism claims.

[^1]: "What Is Intellectual Property?". Wipo.int. N.p., 2016. Web. 16 Mar. 2016.
[^2]: Free Culture. 1st ed. New York: Penguin Books, 2016. Web. 16 Mar. 2016.
